Customer management typically involves
understanding the product, including specifications,
pricing, and delivery lead times,
as well as obtaining price quotes
and production lead times for engineered-to-order items,
placing orders, resolving order problems,
and obtaining repair parts or service
after the sale has been completed.
Customer management provides support
to customers from product inquiry
through order completion, as well as
during the post order period and can
vary depending on the complexity
of the product, sophistication of the customer,
ability of the organization, and importance
of the customer to the organization.
Online and catalog retailers and
financial organizations, like credit card companies,
tend to have some of the most
advanced customer management and CRM capabilities.
Basic customer management, may be synonymous
with customer service, providing efficient ordering
mechanisms into access to customer
representatives for resolving problematic orders.
Advanced customer management, may involve customer
relationship management, or CRM.
CRM includes all processes at
the interface between a company
and its customers that generate
customer demand and facilitate customer
order placement and delivery.
CRM focuses on strategic understanding of customers,
and often involves detailed customer data analysis.
An example of customer management,
in industry, would include Walmart.
In that industry, customer management
involves having standard items that they sell on the shelf.
There is no customization.
The customer knows what Walmart sells,
and shops there to buy those items.